Add openmc guide (#393)
arfc/arfc.github.io: manual/guides/openmc.md

---
layout: manual
title: OpenMC
subtitle: "OpenMC - Installing from source for development"
permalink: /manual/guides/openmc
---

> ## Step 0. Read the Installation Guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Step 0. Read the Installation Guide
```

OpenMC has an [excellent installation
guide](https://docs.openmc.org/en/stable/usersguide/install.html#installing-from-source)
that covers the dependencies. Several practices, discussed below, may 
make the whole process easier, cleaner, and more self-contained.

> # Step 1. Set up a Conda environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Step 1. Set up a Conda Environment
```

> that covers the dependencies. You should read this guide and understand it.
> I have installed OpenMC from source many many times and I have found several
> practices make the whole process easier, cleaner, and more self-contained.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that covers the dependencies. Several practices, discussed below, may 
make the whole process easier, cleaner, and more self-contained.
```

> ## Step 1. Set up a Conda environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Step 1. Set up a Conda environment
```

dependencies allows different versions of various dependencies to co-exist on
the same machine. It also eases installation of OpenMC's Python API. 
To create an environment with the  name `openmc-env`, run:

```
conda create -n openmc-env
```

> # Step 2. Install dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Step 2. Install Dependencies
```

> I like to use the name `openmc-env` for my environment, so I run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I like to use the name `openmc-env` for my environment, so I run:
```

> dependencies rather than `apt` allows different versions of software to exist on
> the same machine. It also allows you to easily install OpenMC's Python API. 
> I like to use the name `openmc-env` for my environment, so I run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dependencies allows different versions of various dependencies to co-exist on
the same machine. It also eases installation of OpenMC's Python API. 
To create an environment with the name `openmc-env`, run:
```

> Install all the dependencies listed in the installation guide using conda. For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install all the dependencies listed in the installation guide using conda in your new environment. For
```

> ## Step 2. Install dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Step 2. Install dependencies
```

Install all the dependencies listed in the installation guide using conda. For

> example, to install the Python dependencies, run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example, to install the Python dependencies, run:
```

conda install numpy scipy pandas pytest matplotlib lxml
uncertainties
```
This _should_ install the required compilers and HDF5 libraries needed for
OpenMC.
> [!NOTE] 
> The recommendations for installing `h5py` in 
> [development mode](https://docs.openmc.org/en/stable/usersguide/install.html#installing-in-development-mode)

> > in the installation guide. If you chose to do this, you should set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> are in the installation guide. If you chose to do this, you should set
```

> Note the recommendations for installing `h5py` in [development
> mode](https://docs.openmc.org/en/stable/usersguide/install.html#installing-in-development-mode)
> in the installation guide. If you chose to do this, you should set
> `HDF5_DIR=$CONDA_PREFIX` (for building `h5py`) and `HDF5_ROOT=$CONDA_PREFIX`(for
> building OpenMC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE] 
> The recommendations for installing `h5py` in 
> [development mode](https://docs.openmc.org/en/stable/usersguide/install.html#installing-in-development-mode)
> in the installation guide. If you chose to do this, you should set
> `HDF5_DIR=$CONDA_PREFIX` (for building `h5py`) and `HDF5_ROOT=$CONDA_PREFIX`(for
> building OpenMC).
```

---
layout: manual
title: OpenMC
subtitle: "OpenMC - Installing from source for development"
permalink: /manual/guides/openmc
---

# Step 0. Read the Installation Guide
OpenMC has an [excellent installation
guide](https://docs.openmc.org/en/stable/usersguide/install.html#installing-from-source)
that covers the dependencies. You should read this guide and understand it.
I have installed OpenMC from source many many times and I have found several
practices make the whole process easier, cleaner, and more self-contained.

# Step 1. Set up a Conda environment
When building OpenMC from source, using a conda environment to install

> dependencies rather than `apt` allows different versions of software to exist on
> the same machine. It also allows you to easily install OpenMC's Python API. 
> I like to use the name `openmc-env` for my environment, so I run:

Author: ```suggestion
dependencies allows different versions of various dependencies to co-exist on
the same machine. It also eases installation of OpenMC's Python API. 
To create an environment with the  name `openmc-env`, run:
```
